Synthetic Data
========================

This subproject contains evaluations of synthetic data solutions that use AI.


## Overview

Synthetic data is data generated by a computer program, that is often used for various development and testing tasks.
Currently we can think of synthetic data as data generated by an AI program that mimicks real world or productuion 
data. AI generated data is billed as being better than current solutions; mock data, data generated by a script that 
fakes actual data and anonymized data, data taken from the real world and modified to remove personally identifiable 
information. The two main value adds are safety and statistical relevance.

### Safety

Synthetic data solutions argue that their generated data is safer than anonymized data by citing the numerous examples
of anonymized data being reversed, or used to identify the original peaple in spite of the anonymization techniques 
applied, and by demonstrating that their data contains no real entities that could possibly correlate to any persons
associated with the original dataset.

Ref: 
[3 reasons why organizations are moving away from legacy data anonymization](https://mostly.ai/blog/3-reasons-to-drop-classic-anonymization-and-upgrade-to-synthetic-data) 
[Ivona Krchova, Mostly.ai - November 25, 2020]

### Statistical Relevance

Synthetic data solutions argue and demonstrate that their generated data maintains statistical properties or patterns 
of the original data. This means that the synthetic data can be used to train AI models that will perform well on
actual data. Note that synthetic data introduces some noise that leads to a reduction in model accuracy. However, there
are techniques that can be applied to manage this. A trade of between model accuracy and safety can be made as 
appropriate for any given application and dataset.

Ref: 
[AI model collapse: How to avoid degradation of models with synthetic training data](https://mostly.ai/blog/model-collapse-and-synthetic-data)
[George Loizou, Mostly.ai - August 29, 2023]

## SDLC Applications

Synthetic data can be used in various stages of the software development life cycle. However, in some cases it competes 
with existing solutions. Depending on the specific application and security/safty models it may be more or less 
valuable. Here we'll explore a number of use cases and build some arguments for further study to determine the ROI of
synthetic data for each case.

### Development

For development we will strictly consider all development that's *not* directly related to AI model training.

During development it's often neccessary to develop and test against data that mimics the size, patterns, and scope of
production data. There are a number of popular solutions for this already in use today.

 - Fake or mocked data generated by a script or program
    - A common python framework for this is [Faker](https://faker.readthedocs.io/en/master/).
 - Anonymized production data
    - Large enterprises often use a solution like [Delphix](https://www.delphix.com/).
 - Directly cloned production data
    - A copy of production data is made using Delphix or any number of other solutions, this can only be done for 
      non-sensitive data.

There are some short comings of these two solutions. Fake or mocked data often doesn't represeant the statistical
patterns of real world data and anonymized data can potentially be reversed to reveal identifying information.

That being said, fake or mocked data works well for development and testing for the many scenarios where the 
statistical patterns of real world data don't matter for the development cycle. Anonymized data may be acceptable for
development when controls are in place to protect it within an organization.

For the development use case the ROI of synthetic data may be reduced due to scenarios where the statistical patterns
of real worl data are not required and due to additional controls around anonymized data that can be implemented. For
this use case synthetic data solutions should be explored as they mature, while existing solutions are continued to be
utilized.

### Performance Testing

TODO ... 
Questions - are the statistical patterns of real world data be important for performance testing?

### Big Data and AI Model Training

TODO ...
Summarize the value arguments for synthetic data since they clearly apply to AI model training the most.
